Well, this is the original diagram
of how web authentication works.
So it can be you have a relying party,
and who is the relying party?
We are, our server, our backend is the
relying party, okay, the relying party.
So then the relying party
talks with the client,
the client is the browser,
using the WebAuthn API.
So this is one of the diagram from Yubico,
the one of the keys.
By the way, Yubico, the keys manufacturer,
is one of the original editors of
the FIDO2 alliance that created this API.
The relying party, okay, is one of these
non-common words here in the web world.
Who is the relying party?
Well, we are,
our backend is the relying party.
So every time you read about relying
party, that's the backend, okay?
And the relying party is
requesting somehow or
with the help of the client,
okay, that it's the browser.
But you can see this application as well,
because WebAuthn is also available for
native apps.
Even if it's web,
it's available for native apps.
Because it's not just client base,
it's actually a solution that
relies on the relying party.
It needs the backend, so
we need to do something special
in the backend so it will work.
And then the client or the platform
can use an internal authenticator or
it can use an external authenticator.
So it can be a USB key or
it can be like your finger or your face.
And by the way, by external,
typically you will see a USB key as
an example, but it can be a phone as well.
Some of you ask this morning
what happens with passkeys,
we were talking about passkeys.
And by the way, spoiler,
passkeys are based on web authentication.
So how can I log in on Windows if I
have my passkey saved in iOS?
Well, through a QR code on Bluetooth,
both platforms will connect.
In that case, your phone will act
as an external authenticator, okay?
So it's not always a USB key,
it can be a phone that will
provide the authentication for
web authentication.
And typically, let me show you this first,
and then I go back to the dialog.
Web authentication has two flows.
Registration, so
you register a web authentication, or
you authenticate,
that is going to be the login.
And both are kind of very
similar in terms of the flow.
The flow, so what happens in terms
of data coming from where to where?
It's the same.
We change a little bit the code
that we write on each flow, but
then the process is similar,
and this is the process, okay?
First, we are the user.
The user goes to a relying in party, so
that is the user loads a website, okay?
So the website has login with
web authentication, okay?
So there is a button or something that
triggers login with web authentication.
So the user chooses to
log in without password,
that's kind of the idea,
okay, or register an account.
In that moment, okay,
we go to step number 3, that is this one.
The website asks the authenticator
to use a key pair,
which it starts to sounds really weird.
Okay, so
the website asks the authenticator.
Who is the authenticator?
It can be the platform authenticator or
it can be the USB key,
an external authenticator.
So you ask the API, okay?
The thing is that there
is a process here going
on that is like a double step process.
So the client, the frontend will
ask the server for a challenge.
The challenge is,
let's say I'm simplifying the concept, but
the challenge, it's a network challenge.
Let's say it's like a math operation,
okay?
So our backend is going to
create the challenge and
it's going to sign the challenge.
Because we are talking
about private keys and
public keys here when we are talking
about web authentication.
With that challenge,
the authenticator will ask
the user to use a gesture
to authorize a key.
It can create a key or it can use a key.
It depends if we are registering or
we are authenticating the user.
So that means the user will receive
a dialog, a pop-up saying, hey,
put your face here,
put your finger, put your USB key.
And if you authorize the operation,
okay, actually,
the browser will sign that
challenge that the server sent and
it's going to send
everything to the backend.
We will send everything to the backend,
and the backend will verify,
will decrypt that packet and
see if the challenge is correct.
So I know that maybe you're not following
me because it's okay, but it's simpler.
The idea is simple.
The server will generate data and
it will sign the data.
It goes to the authenticator.
The authenticator will ask the user to
authenticate somehow, with the face, okay?
If the user is granted, I mean,
the face is the user's face or
the finger is user's finger,
then what will happen is that
the authenticator will take that
challenge and will resolve the challenge.
And it will send the public key,
the user's public key,
that goes back to the server.
And the server will actually open that
package, will decrypt the package.
And it will verify that the authenticator
is who he's saying it is,
or it's saying it is and
that the challenge was resolved, just,
Trust that this was created
by security companies and
they tried to solve all
the possible security issues, okay?
So I know at this point, you still
don't understand exactly the process,
but now we will write the code, okay?
And we will see it in action.
And then you will understand this double
process thing that happens with web
authentication, okay?
Both for registration and login, okay?
I don't even wanna show you
the original web authentication flows,
because they are so
complex to actually follow.
I mean, as web developers,
we're not interested in so much detail.
We wanna use the API, and we wanna
understand what goes on the server,
what goes on the client,
in which order, what do we need to say?
And actually, that's all we care.
So we understand the process,
and that's all.
But even if the term is web,
WebAuthn, the spec,
the part that we care about is
only the relying party section.
That is actually the smallest one,
fortunately.
All the rest of the spec defines flows and
information for platform authenticators.
So for whoever is doing the browser or
for OS developers, not for us, okay?
So that's why when you go to web
authentication, for example,
there are a couple of websites where you
can read more about web authentication
that are open.
One is webauthn.guide, for example.
When you look at here,
you have registration, here,
you have some code, okay?
But when you look at that,
sometimes when you read this,
they have a lot of information that is not
so important for us at one point, okay?
We will follow the information flow.